publications.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Publications
permalink: /publications/
---
### Book Projects
- "Training for Catastrophe: National Security and the Use of Fiction After 9/11." Manuscript in progress. Investigates the use of fiction as a mode of knowledge production within contemporary US national security discourse, arguing that this dependence on fiction – at once strange, remarkable, and unsettling – is a political tool for shaping how we imagine and respond to catastrophe today.

### Articles and Book Chapters
- “Information,” _American Literature in Transition: 2000-2010_, ed. Rachel Greenwald-Smith, (Cambridge University Press, Dec 2017), 181-192.
- ["Forms of Duration: Preparedness, the Mars Trilogy, and the Management of Climate Change,"](http://americanliterature.dukejournals.org/content/88/1/159.abstract) _American Literature_ (March 2016): 159-184.
- ["Active Users: Project Development and Digital Humanities Pedagogy,"](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/550524/summary) Co-authored with Dana Solomon, _CEA Critic_, 26.2 (Summer 2014): 211-220.
- [“Pandemics of the Future: Disease Surveillance in Real Time,"](http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/view/pandemics) _Surveillance and Society_ 12.2 (2014).
- ["Speculative Environments: Spaces of Disease Surveillance,"](http://www.mediafieldsjournal.org/speculative-environments/2011/12/29/speculative-environments-spaces-of-disease-surveillance.html) _Media Fields Journal_ 4 (2012).

### Reviews
- ["Why We Read Novels,"](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/591469) _Contemporary Literature_ 56.2 (Summer 2015): 386-93.

Commit message:

updates and adding target=_blank

publications.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Publications
permalink: /publications/
---
### Book Projects
- [*Training for Catastrophe: National Security and the Use of Fiction After 9/11*]("https://www.upress.umn.edu/book-division/books/training-for-catastrophe"){:target="_blank"}. Forthcoming, March 2021 (University of Minnesota Press). Investigates the use of fiction as a mode of knowledge production within contemporary US national security discourse, arguing that this dependence on fiction – at once strange, remarkable, and unsettling – is a political tool for shaping how we imagine and respond to catastrophe today.

### Articles and Book Chapters
- “Modeling Long Novels: Network Analysis and *A Brief History of Seven Killings*,” [*The Palgrave Handbook of Twentieth and Twenty-First Century Literature and Science*](https://www.palgrave.com/us/book/9783030482435){:target="_blank"}, eds. The Triangle Collective (Palgrave). 2020, 653-667.
* “Preparedness Documents After the Fact,” [*The Routledge Companion to Media and Risk*](https://www.routledge.com/The-Routledge-Companion-to-Media-and-Risk/Ghosh-Sarkar/p/book/9781138638938){:target=_"blank"}, eds. Bhaskar Sarkar and Bishnupriya Ghosh (Routledge). 2020, 165-176.
- “Information,” _American Literature in Transition: 2000-2010_, ed. Rachel Greenwald-Smith, (Cambridge University Press, 2018), 181-192.
- ["Forms of Duration: Preparedness, the Mars Trilogy, and the Management of Climate Change,"](http://americanliterature.dukejournals.org/content/88/1/159.abstract){:target=_"blank"} _American Literature_ (March 2016): 159-184.
- ["Active Users: Project Development and Digital Humanities Pedagogy,"](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/550524/summary){:target=_"blank"} Co-authored with Dana Solomon, _CEA Critic_, 26.2 (Summer 2014): 211-220.
- [“Pandemics of the Future: Disease Surveillance in Real Time,"](http://library.queensu.ca/ojs/index.php/surveillance-and-society/article/view/pandemics){:target=_"blank"} _Surveillance and Society_ 12.2 (2014).
- ["Speculative Environments: Spaces of Disease Surveillance,"](http://www.mediafieldsjournal.org/speculative-environments/2011/12/29/speculative-environments-spaces-of-disease-surveillance.html){:target=_"blank"} _Media Fields Journal_ 4 (2012).

### Reviews
- [Review of John Hay, *Postapocalyptic Fantasies in Antebellum American Literature* (2017); Johannes Voelz, *The Poetics of Insecurity* (2018); and Timothy Recuber, *Consuming Catastrophe: Mass Culture in America’s Decade of Disaster* (2016)](https://read.dukeupress.edu/american-literature/article-abstract/92/1/159/156860/Postapocalyptic-Fantasies-in-Antebellum-American?redirectedFrom=fulltext){:target=_"blank"}; *American Literature* 92.1 (2020): 159-161.
- ["Why We Read Novels,"](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/591469){:target=_"blank"} _Contemporary Literature_ 56.2 (Summer 2015): 386-93.
